DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Deployment Guide: Google Cloud + Vercel

This guide covers deploying Figurdle with the API on Google Cloud Run and the frontend on Vercel. The project includes automated deployment pipelines and daily puzzle generation.

## Prerequisites

1. **Google Cloud Account**: Enable Cloud Run and Cloud SQL APIs
2. **Vercel Account**: Connect to your GitHub repository
3. **OpenAI API Key**: For character generation

## 1. Deploy API to Google Cloud Run

### Setup Cloud SQL Database

1. **Create PostgreSQL instance:**
   ```bash
   gcloud sql instances create figurdle-db \
     --database-version=POSTGRES_15 \
     --tier=db-f1-micro \
     --region=us-central1
   ```

2. **Create database:**
   ```bash
   gcloud sql databases create figurdle --instance=figurdle-db
   ```

3. **Create user:**
   ```bash
   gcloud sql users create figurdle-user \
     --instance=figurdle-db \
     --password=[YOUR_PASSWORD]
   ```

### Deploy API to Cloud Run

#### Option A: Automated Pipeline (Recommended)

Google Cloud Run supports automated deployments directly from your Git repository. This enables continuous deployment when you push changes to main.

1. **Set up automated deployment:**
   - Connect your repository to Cloud Run
   - Configure build triggers for the `apps/api` directory
   - Set environment variables in the Cloud Run service configuration

2. **Configure environment variables in Cloud Run console:**
   ```bash
   ENVIRONMENT=production
   INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME=[PROJECT_ID]:[REGION]:figurdle-db
   DB_USER=figurdle-user
   DB_PASS=[YOUR_PASSWORD]
   DB_NAME=figurdle
   OPENAI_API_KEY=[YOUR_OPENAI_KEY]
   PUZZLE_SIGNING_SECRET=[SECURE_RANDOM_STRING]
   ```

#### Option B: Manual Deployment

1. **Navigate to API directory:**
   ```bash
   cd apps/api
   ```

2. **Deploy with Cloud Run:**
   ```bash
   gcloud run deploy figurdle-api \
     --source . \
     --platform managed \
     --region us-central1 \
     --allow-unauthenticated \
     --set-env-vars ENVIRONMENT=production \
     --set-env-vars INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME=[PROJECT_ID]:[REGION]:figurdle-db \
     --set-env-vars DB_USER=figurdle-user \
     --set-env-vars DB_PASS=[YOUR_PASSWORD] \
     --set-env-vars DB_NAME=figurdle \
     --set-env-vars OPENAI_API_KEY=[YOUR_OPENAI_KEY] \
     --set-env-vars PUZZLE_SIGNING_SECRET=[SECURE_RANDOM_STRING]
   ```

3. **Run database migrations:**
   ```bash
   # Get Cloud Run URL
   API_URL=$(gcloud run services describe figurdle-api --region us-central1 --format 'value(status.url)')
   
   # Run migrations (you'll need to do this from a local connection or Cloud Shell)
   # Set up connection to Cloud SQL and run: alembic upgrade head
   ```

### Update CORS with Vercel Domain

After deploying to Vercel (next step), update the API CORS settings:

1. Get your Vercel URL
2. Update `apps/api/app/main.py` line 21:
   ```python
   allowed_origins.extend(["https://your-app.vercel.app"])
   ```
3. Redeploy the API

## 2. Deploy Frontend to Vercel

### Option A: Vercel Dashboard (Recommended)

1. **Connect Repository:**
   - Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
   - Import your GitHub repository
   - Set root directory to `apps/web`

2. **Configure Environment Variables:**
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL = [YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]
   ```

3. **Deploy:**
   - Vercel will auto-deploy on every git push to main

### Option B: Vercel CLI

1. **Install Vercel CLI:**
   ```bash
   npm i -g vercel
   ```

2. **Deploy:**
   ```bash
   cd apps/web
   vercel --prod
   ```

## 3. Environment Variables Summary

### Google Cloud Run (API)
```bash
ENVIRONMENT=production
INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME=[PROJECT_ID]:[REGION]:figurdle-db
DB_USER=figurdle-user
DB_PASS=[YOUR_PASSWORD]
DB_NAME=figurdle
OPENAI_API_KEY=[YOUR_OPENAI_KEY]
PUZZLE_SIGNING_SECRET=[SECURE_RANDOM_STRING]
PORT=8080
```

### Vercel (Frontend)
```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=[YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]
```

## 4. Set Up Automated Daily Puzzle Generation

### Configure Google Cloud Scheduler

1. **Enable Cloud Scheduler API:**
   ```bash
   gcloud services enable cloudscheduler.googleapis.com
   ```

2. **Create daily puzzle generation job:**
   ```bash
   gcloud scheduler jobs create http daily-puzzle-generation \
     --location=us-central1 \
     --schedule="1 0 * * *" \
     --time-zone="America/Los_Angeles" \
     --uri="[YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]/admin/rotate" \
     --http-method=POST \
     --headers="Content-Type=application/json,Content-Length=0" \
     --max-retry-attempts=3 \
     --max-retry-duration=300s
   ```

3. **Test the scheduler job:**
   ```bash
   gcloud scheduler jobs run daily-puzzle-generation --location=us-central1
   ```

### Monitor Scheduled Jobs

```bash
# View job status
gcloud scheduler jobs describe daily-puzzle-generation --location=us-central1

# View execution logs
gcloud logging read "resource.type=cloud_scheduler_job AND resource.labels.job_id=daily-puzzle-generation" --limit=5

# Pause/resume job
gcloud scheduler jobs pause daily-puzzle-generation --location=us-central1
gcloud scheduler jobs resume daily-puzzle-generation --location=us-central1
```

## 5. Post-Deployment Tasks

1. **Test the API:**
   ```bash
   curl [YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]/health
   ```

2. **Generate first puzzle:**
   ```bash
   curl -X POST -H "Content-Length: 0" [YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]/admin/rotate
   ```

3. **Verify automated scheduling:**
   ```bash
   gcloud scheduler jobs list --location=us-central1
   ```

4. **Update CORS:**
   - Add your Vercel domain to allowed origins
   - Redeploy API

5. **Set up custom domain (optional):**
   - Configure custom domain in Vercel dashboard
   - Update API CORS with custom domain

## 6. Monitoring & Maintenance

### View Logs
```bash
# API logs
gcloud run services logs read figurdle-api --region us-central1

# Database logs
gcloud sql operations list --instance figurdle-db

# Scheduler logs
gcloud logging read "resource.type=cloud_scheduler_job AND resource.labels.job_id=daily-puzzle-generation" --limit=10
```

### Scaling
```bash
# Update Cloud Run service
gcloud run services update figurdle-api \
  --region us-central1 \
  --cpu 1 \
  --memory 512Mi \
  --max-instances 10
```

### Database Backups
```bash
# Create backup
gcloud sql backups create --instance figurdle-db

# List backups
gcloud sql backups list --instance figurdle-db
```

## Cost Estimates

- **Cloud SQL (f1-micro)**: ~$7-15/month
- **Cloud Run**: ~$0-5/month (free tier covers most usage)
- **Vercel**: Free for hobby projects
- **Total**: ~$7-20/month for typical usage

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Database connection fails:**
   - Check INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME format
   - Verify Cloud SQL Auth Proxy setup

2. **CORS errors:**
   - Update allowed origins in main.py
   - Redeploy API after changes

3. **Environment variables:**
   - Use gcloud run services update to modify env vars
   - Restart service after changes

### Support Commands

```bash
# Check Cloud Run status
gcloud run services describe figurdle-api --region us-central1

# Check Cloud SQL status
gcloud sql instances describe figurdle-db

# View environment variables
gcloud run services describe figurdle-api --region us-central1 --format="export"
```

Commit message:

feat: add figurdle.com domain to allowed and fix session memory

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Deployment Guide: Google Cloud + Vercel

This guide covers deploying Figurdle with the API on Google Cloud Run and the frontend on Vercel. The project includes automated deployment pipelines and daily puzzle generation.

## Prerequisites

1. **Google Cloud Account**: Enable Cloud Run and Cloud SQL APIs
2. **Vercel Account**: Connect to your GitHub repository
3. **OpenAI API Key**: For character generation

## 1. Deploy API to Google Cloud Run

### Setup Cloud SQL Database

1. **Create PostgreSQL instance:**
   ```bash
   gcloud sql instances create figurdle-db \
     --database-version=POSTGRES_15 \
     --tier=db-f1-micro \
     --region=us-central1
   ```

2. **Create database:**
   ```bash
   gcloud sql databases create figurdle --instance=figurdle-db
   ```

3. **Create user:**
   ```bash
   gcloud sql users create figurdle-user \
     --instance=figurdle-db \
     --password=[YOUR_PASSWORD]
   ```

### Deploy API to Cloud Run

#### Option A: Automated Pipeline (Recommended)

Google Cloud Run supports automated deployments directly from your Git repository. This enables continuous deployment when you push changes to main.

1. **Set up automated deployment:**
   - Connect your repository to Cloud Run
   - Configure build triggers for the `apps/api` directory
   - Set environment variables in the Cloud Run service configuration

2. **Configure environment variables in Cloud Run console:**
   ```bash
   ENVIRONMENT=production
   INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME=[PROJECT_ID]:[REGION]:figurdle-db
   DB_USER=figurdle-user
   DB_PASS=[YOUR_PASSWORD]
   DB_NAME=figurdle
   OPENAI_API_KEY=[YOUR_OPENAI_KEY]
   PUZZLE_SIGNING_SECRET=[SECURE_RANDOM_STRING]
   ```

#### Option B: Manual Deployment

1. **Navigate to API directory:**
   ```bash
   cd apps/api
   ```

2. **Deploy with Cloud Run:**
   ```bash
   gcloud run deploy figurdle-api \
     --source . \
     --platform managed \
     --region us-central1 \
     --allow-unauthenticated \
     --set-env-vars ENVIRONMENT=production \
     --set-env-vars INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME=[PROJECT_ID]:[REGION]:figurdle-db \
     --set-env-vars DB_USER=figurdle-user \
     --set-env-vars DB_PASS=[YOUR_PASSWORD] \
     --set-env-vars DB_NAME=figurdle \
     --set-env-vars OPENAI_API_KEY=[YOUR_OPENAI_KEY] \
     --set-env-vars PUZZLE_SIGNING_SECRET=[SECURE_RANDOM_STRING]
   ```

3. **Run database migrations:**

   Use Google Cloud Console SQL Studio to run migrations:
   1. Go to https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances
   2. Click on your database instance
   3. Click "Cloud SQL Studio" in the left sidebar
   4. Run the required CREATE TABLE statements in the query interface

   Alternatively, use command line:
   ```bash
   gcloud sql execute-sql [INSTANCE_NAME] --sql="[YOUR_SQL_COMMANDS]"
   ```

### Update CORS with Vercel Domain

After deploying to Vercel (next step), update the API CORS settings:

1. Get your Vercel URL
2. Update `apps/api/app/main.py` line 21:
   ```python
   allowed_origins.extend(["https://your-app.vercel.app"])
   ```
3. Redeploy the API

## 2. Deploy Frontend to Vercel

### Option A: Vercel Dashboard (Recommended)

1. **Connect Repository:**
   - Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com)
   - Import your GitHub repository
   - Set root directory to `apps/web`

2. **Configure Environment Variables:**
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL = [YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]
   ```

3. **Deploy:**
   - Vercel will auto-deploy on every git push to main

### Option B: Vercel CLI

1. **Install Vercel CLI:**
   ```bash
   npm i -g vercel
   ```

2. **Deploy:**
   ```bash
   cd apps/web
   vercel --prod
   ```

## 3. Environment Variables Summary

### Google Cloud Run (API)
```bash
ENVIRONMENT=production
INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME=[PROJECT_ID]:[REGION]:figurdle-db
DB_USER=figurdle-user
DB_PASS=[YOUR_PASSWORD]
DB_NAME=figurdle
OPENAI_API_KEY=[YOUR_OPENAI_KEY]
PUZZLE_SIGNING_SECRET=[SECURE_RANDOM_STRING]
PORT=8080
```

### Vercel (Frontend)
```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=[YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]
```

## 4. Set Up Automated Daily Puzzle Generation

### Configure Google Cloud Scheduler

1. **Enable Cloud Scheduler API:**
   ```bash
   gcloud services enable cloudscheduler.googleapis.com
   ```

2. **Create daily puzzle generation job:**
   ```bash
   gcloud scheduler jobs create http daily-puzzle-generation \
     --location=us-central1 \
     --schedule="1 0 * * *" \
     --time-zone="America/Los_Angeles" \
     --uri="[YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]/admin/rotate" \
     --http-method=POST \
     --headers="Content-Type=application/json,Content-Length=0" \
     --max-retry-attempts=3 \
     --max-retry-duration=300s
   ```

3. **Test the scheduler job:**
   ```bash
   gcloud scheduler jobs run daily-puzzle-generation --location=us-central1
   ```

### Monitor Scheduled Jobs

```bash
# View job status
gcloud scheduler jobs describe daily-puzzle-generation --location=us-central1

# View execution logs
gcloud logging read "resource.type=cloud_scheduler_job AND resource.labels.job_id=daily-puzzle-generation" --limit=5

# Pause/resume job
gcloud scheduler jobs pause daily-puzzle-generation --location=us-central1
gcloud scheduler jobs resume daily-puzzle-generation --location=us-central1
```

## 5. Post-Deployment Tasks

1. **Test the API:**
   ```bash
   curl [YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]/health
   ```

2. **Generate first puzzle:**
   ```bash
   curl -X POST -H "Content-Length: 0" [YOUR_CLOUD_RUN_URL]/admin/rotate
   ```

3. **Verify automated scheduling:**
   ```bash
   gcloud scheduler jobs list --location=us-central1
   ```

4. **Update CORS:**
   - Add your Vercel domain to allowed origins
   - Redeploy API

5. **Set up custom domain (optional):**
   - Configure custom domain in Vercel dashboard
   - Update API CORS with custom domain

## 6. Monitoring & Maintenance

### View Logs
```bash
# API logs
gcloud run services logs read figurdle-api --region us-central1

# Database logs
gcloud sql operations list --instance figurdle-db

# Scheduler logs
gcloud logging read "resource.type=cloud_scheduler_job AND resource.labels.job_id=daily-puzzle-generation" --limit=10
```

### Scaling
```bash
# Update Cloud Run service
gcloud run services update figurdle-api \
  --region us-central1 \
  --cpu 1 \
  --memory 512Mi \
  --max-instances 10
```

### Database Backups
```bash
# Create backup
gcloud sql backups create --instance figurdle-db

# List backups
gcloud sql backups list --instance figurdle-db
```

## Cost Estimates

- **Cloud SQL (f1-micro)**: ~$7-15/month
- **Cloud Run**: ~$0-5/month (free tier covers most usage)
- **Vercel**: Free for hobby projects
- **Total**: ~$7-20/month for typical usage

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Database connection fails:**
   - Check INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME format
   - Verify Cloud SQL Auth Proxy setup

2. **CORS errors:**
   - Update allowed origins in main.py
   - Redeploy API after changes

3. **Environment variables:**
   - Use gcloud run services update to modify env vars
   - Restart service after changes

### Support Commands

```bash
# Check Cloud Run status
gcloud run services describe figurdle-api --region us-central1

# Check Cloud SQL status
gcloud sql instances describe figurdle-db

# View environment variables
gcloud run services describe figurdle-api --region us-central1 --format="export"
```
